Reviewer 9 of IROS 2025 submission 2656

Comments to the author
======================

Summary
The paper presents a novel general loss function that can
adapt to express various families of distributions
including the Laplace, normal, and Cauchy distribution. The
density of the tails depends on two robustness parameters
which are optimized along with the weights during training.
This allows the loss function to adapt to various levels of
outliers in the training set. The loss function is
presented and evaluated in the context of estimation of
uncertainty in regression.

While the related work addresses several important papers
in the field, two important aspects of uncertainty
estimation are left out in the paper: The distinction
between epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty, and the
ability of uncertainty estimation methods to handle
multi-model probability distributions. It is arguably an
important discussion especially as the presented method
cannot, in its given form, handle multimodal distributions,
which is one of the notable aspects of sampling-based
methods. The presented method is evaluated against several
state-of-the-art methods on both synthetic and real-world
datasets, including a robotic grasping experiment. In the
first experiment where no artificial contamination of
outliers was performed (e.i. experiment C), it performed
slightly better than deep ensembles (which is considered
state-of-the-art), however, the deep ensemble method was
left out in the grasping experiment.

While the general flow of the paper and the language is
fine, if sometimes a bit vague, there are numerous errors
and inconsistencies when reading the paper in-depth.
Furthermore, the evaluation descriptions lack details, such
as clear descriptions of the 1D regression problem and the
toy dataset.

For specific points, see below:

Related work
The related work addresses several important papers in the
field. However, the authors omit to discuss two important
aspects of uncertainty estimation:
1) the distinction between epistemic and aleatoric
uncertainty, and 2) The ability to handle multi-modal
probability distributions.
As a minor correction: Instead of writing that all Bayesian
methods require doubling the model size, it should be
stated that the model size increases, as this leaves room
for Bayesian methods where the weights are not approximated
as independent Normal distributions.

Evaluation
The method is evaluated using the Interval score against
several alternative uncertainty estimation methods,
including deep ensembles:
A) A simulated 1D regression problem with introduced
outliers in the training data. Note: it is unclear what
function is being regressed.
B) Uncertainty estimation on 9 UCI (real world) datasets
C) Toy dataset contaminated with 10% outliers. It is
unclear what the toy dataset is.
d) Keypoint estimation on the Cornell dataset. 10% outliers
have been simulated in the dataset.
The estimated key point with corresponding uncertainty was
also used in a grasping experiment. Grasping performance
when using deep ensembles have not been evaluated. It is
unclear why this is the case.

Clarity of the presented method
- While the flow and overall structure is fine, there is a
significant number of problems when reading it closely.
E.g.
  - Vague language:
    * "The NLL of a normal distribution allows us to
estimate both the value and the uncertainty in the
prediction..." (column 2 page 2)
    * "... allowing the optimization algorithm to make
progress." (column 1 page 3)
  - Errors:
    * such as term 2 refers to both alpha and beta while
only the beta value appears in term 2 (column 1 page 3)
    * Equation column 2 page 3 contains max for y in
y_min,y_max, but y is not part of the equation being
maximized.
  - Inconsistencies:
    * in the use of the sign() function: on column 2 page 3
the derivative of |r| is stated to be -sign(r) using a
definition of sign(x) where it is negative if x is
positive, which is the opposite of the usual definition of
sign. This is however different than the sign() function
used for the partial derivative of L wrt r used on column 1
page 3.

Suggestion for specific edits
- the derivative dL/dr is stated on column 1 page 3 without
a derivation, but the partial derivative dL/dr is derived
on column 2. The two are the same but with opposite sign,
due to the definition of the sign function used. It might
increase readability if the derivation was presented first,
using the same definition of sign(). 