Reviewer 7 of IROS 2025 submission 2656

Comments to the author
======================

The authors tackle the problem of uncertainty estimation
for deep regression with outlier-contanimnated data, which
is commonly encountered in robotic applications.
Specifically, for computation and run-time efficiency, the
author concentrate single-model uncertainty estimation,
which predicts the parameters of a presumed distribution
for the outputs, such as Gaussian, Laplace and Cauchy. To
avoid manual selection of the form of the output
distribution, the authors propose to utilize the
generalized normal distribution, a super-set of those
mentioned before. Experiments on 1-D toy data, UCI data and
a robotic grasp key-point detection demonstrate the
effectiveness of proposed idea. Finally, an evaluation on
the real robot has been conducted.

Strengths:
- This work addressed an important problem, regression
uncertainty estimation with outliers, which is
under-explored and highly important in robotics.

- The proposed idea of employing generalized Gaussian to
avoid manual distribution form selection is sensible and
theoretically sound according to the properties analyzed in
the method part.

- The experiments are comprehensive in terms of relevant
tasks ranging from toy data to real-world applications and
included baselines for comparative study.

- The idea is also evaluated on a real robot, demonstrating
its applicability in robotics.


Weakness/Suggestions:  
- The major issue is that the status of the manuscript
seems not ready for publication: 1. A related work section
is missing, causing troubles for the readers to locate the
contribution of this work in the literature; 2. The
technical section is wordy and focused too much on the
introduction of the mathematical properties of the
generalized Gaussian, which are not the main technical
contribution of this work. My suggestion would be rewrite
this part in a concise manner and focus more on the
proposed technique including the implementation details. 

- Technically, the introduced properties provide a good
motivation why the authors decided to choose this form.
However, it would be more scientifically interesting if the
authors can provide some insights or empirical analysis how
these properties affect the performance when using this
loss for uncertainty estimation. Especially, there is no
discussion related to the Normal-inverse-Gamma
distribution, used in the evidential uncertainty
estimation.

- In experiments, the quality metric of uncertainty
estimation, Interval Score, lacks a retrievable citation
and a clear definition. This would cause mis-understanding
or confusion for the readers.

- In Table I, the performance of the baseline: Evidential,
seems to under-perform a lot, which is a bit weird. An
analysis or explanation would be helpful in understanding
why it fails.  

- Finally, some raw images in the real-robot experiments
can be displayed to show how noisy the real-data can be,
which help further consolidate the claimed benefits in this
work.
